docs: add multitenancy keycloak integration tutorials (#793)
hyperledger-labs/open-enterprise-agent: docs/docusaurus/multitenancy/tenant-onboarding-ext-iam.md

# Tenant Onboarding with External IAM

In the [Tenant Onboarding](./tenant-onboarding.md) tutorial, we explored the basic

> [IAM](/docs/concepts/glossary#iam) functionality provided by the agent out of the box. Although it is usable and straightforward,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The agent provides [IAM](/docs/concepts/glossary#iam) functionality out of the box. Although it is usable and straightforward, more featureful tools are available for handling identity and access management.
```

> there are  more featureful tools available for handling identity and access management.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> The agent has the capability to seamlessly connect with [Keycloak](/docs/concepts/glossary#keycloak-service) as an external IAM system

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The agent can seamlessly connect with [Keycloak](/docs/concepts/glossary#keycloak-service) as an external IAM system, allowing the application built on top to utilize capabilities that come with Keycloak.
```

> allowing the application built on top to utilize capabilities that comes with Keycloak.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

The PRISM Agent leverages standard protocols like [OIDC](/docs/concepts/glossary#oidc) and [UMA](/docs/concepts/glossary#uma) for authentication and access management.

> The user's identity is established through the ID token, and wallet permissions can be queried using the [RPT (requesting party token)](/docs/concepts/glossary#rpt).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The user's identity gets established through the ID token, and wallet permissions are searchable using the [RPT (requesting party token)](/docs/concepts/glossary#rpt).
```

## Roles

In tenant management with external IAM, there are 2 roles:

1. [Administrator](/docs/concepts/glossary#administrator)
2. [Tenant](/docs/concepts/glossary#tenant)

## Prerequisites

1. Keycloak up and running
2. Keycloak is configured as follows
   1. A realm called `my-realm` is created
   2. A client called `prism-agent` under `my-realm` with __authorization__ feature is created. (See [create client instruction](https://www.keycloak.org/docs/latest/authorization_services/index.html#_resource_server_create_client))
   3. Make sure the `prism-agent` client has __direct access grants__ enabled to simplify login process for this tutorial
3. PRISM Agent up and running
4. PRISM Agent is configured with the following environment variables:
   1. `ADMIN_TOKEN=my-admin-token`
   2. `DEFAULT_WALLET_ENABLED=false`
   3. `KEYCLOAK_ENABLED=true`
   4. `KEYCLOAK_URL=http://localhost:9980` (replace with appropriate value)
   5. `KEYCLOAK_REALM=my-realm`
   6. `KEYCLOAK_CLIENT_ID=prism-agent`
   7. `KEYCLOAK_CLIENT_SECRET=<KEYCLOAK_CLIENT_SECRET>` (replace with appropriate value)
   8. `KEYCLOAK_UMA_AUTO_UPGRADE_RPT=false`

## Overview

> This tutorial illustrates the process of provisioning a wallet resource for the new tenant and subsequently creating a tenant in Keycloak.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial illustrates the process of provisioning a wallet resource for the new tenant and creating a tenant in Keycloak.
```

> The administrator can then create a UMA permission for the wallet giving access to the tenant.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The administrator can then create a UMA permission for the wallet, giving access to the tenant.
```

> When setting up UMA permissions on the agent, the wallet resource along with the UMA policy and permission

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When setting up UMA permissions on the agent, the wallet resource, along with the UMA policy and permission
```

are created on Keycloak according to a predefined convention.
For flexibility in defining custom policy and permission models,
administrators can manually create these UMA resources (resource, policy, permission) directly on Keycloak
using a set of UMA endpoints called [Protection API](/docs/concepts/glossary#protection-api)  (see [Keycloak Protection API](https://www.keycloak.org/docs/latest/authorization_services/index.html#_service_protection_api)).
However, using Protection API to manage permissions is out of scope for this tutorial.

Once the registration is successful, the tenant can obtain an ID token from Keycloak using any available OIDC flow,
such as the direct access grants (username & password). This ID token typically contains user claims such as username and subject ID.
The tenant can use Keycloak's token endpoint to convert this token to an RPT (requesting party token),

> which is another token containing permissions information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
another token containing permissions information.
```

| `GET /did-registrar/dids`                  | List the DIDs inside the wallet      | Tenant        |

### Keycloak endpoints
| Endpoint                                             | Description                   | Role                  |
|------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------|-----------------------|
| `POST /admin/realms/{realm}/users`                   | Create a new user on Keycloak | Administrator         |
| `POST /realms/{realm}/protocol/openid-connect/token` | Issue a new JWT token         | Administrator, Tenant |

## Administrator interactions

### 1. Check the existing wallets

When running PRISM Agent using the configurations above, the Agent should start with an empty state.
Listing wallets on it should return empty results.

```bash
curl -X 'GET' \
  'http://localhost:8080/prism-agent/wallets' \
  -H 'accept: application/json' \
  -H 'x-admin-api-key: my-admin-token'
```

Response Example:

```json
{
  "self": "/wallets",
  "kind": "WalletPage",
  "pageOf": "/wallets",
  "contents": []
}
```

### 2. Create a new wallet

> The wallet can be created using a `POST /wallets` endpoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a wallet using a `POST /wallets` endpoint.
```

> This wallet is going to act as a container for the tenant's assets (DIDs, VCs, Connections, etc.).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This wallet will be a container for the tenant's assets (DIDs, VCs, Connections, etc.).
```

> The wallet seed may be provided during the wallet creation or omitted to let the Agent generate one randomly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Provide a wallet seed during the wallet creation or let the Agent generate one
```

```bash
curl -X 'POST' \
  'http://localhost:8080/prism-agent/wallets' \
  -H 'accept: application/json' \
  -H 'x-admin-api-key: my-admin-token' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -d '{
    "seed": "c9994785ce6d548134020f610b76102ca1075d3bb672a75ec8c9a27a7b8607e3b9b384e43b77bb08f8d5159651ae38b98573f7ecc79f2d7e1f1cc371ce60cf8a",
    "name": "my-wallet"
  }'
```

Response Example:

```json
{
  "id": "99734c87-5c9d-4697-b5fd-dea4e9590ba7",
  "name": "my-wallet",
  "createdAt": "2023-01-01T00:00:00Z",
  "updatedAt": "2023-01-01T00:00:00Z"
}
```

### 3. User registration on Keycloak

There are multiple ways to complete this step.

> The goal is to ensure the user is registered on Keycloak.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The goal is to ensure the user exists on Keycloak.
```

> Keycloak offers great flexibility, allowing users to self-register,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Keycloak offers great flexibility, allowing users to self-register, 
connect to IDP, or be manually created by an administrator.
```

> connect to IDP, or be manually created by an administrator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> For this tutorial, the user will be manually created using Keycloak admin API for simplicity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this tutorial, we will generate the user manually using Keycloak admin API for simplicity.
```

The first step is to get an admin token from Keycloak using the username and password.
This token allows the admin to perform operations on Keycloak such as creating a new user.
Running the provided command should return the admin access token.

```bash
curl -X 'POST' \
  'http://localhost:9980/realms/master/protocol/openid-connect/token' \
  -d "grant_type=password" \
  -d "client_id=admin-cli" \
  -d "username=$KEYCLOAK_ADMIN_USER" \
  -d "password=$KEYCLOAK_ADMIN_PASSWORD"
```

Make sure to replace the Keycloak variables with appropriate values.

Example token response (some fields omitted for readability)

```json
{
    "access_token": "eyJhbGciOi...7ocDHofUDQ",
    "refresh_token": "eyJhbGciOi...otsEEi4eQA",
    ...
}
```

> After the admin get the `access_token` from Keycloak, a new user can be created by running this command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the admin gets the `access_token` from Keycloak, a new user can be created by running this command.
```

This can be done by invoking the `POST /wallets/{walletId}/uma-permissions` endpoint on the agent.

```bash
curl -X 'POST' \
  'http://localhost:8080/prism-agent/wallets/99734c87-5c9d-4697-b5fd-dea4e9590ba7/uma-permissions' \
  -v \
  -H 'accept: */*' \
  -H 'x-admin-api-key: my-admin-token' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -d '{
    "subject": "205e04b7-0158-41b0-89c3-f91c3a09f89b"
  }'
```

Make sure to use the correct `subject` for the user and the correct `walletId` from the step earlier.
The user ID can be observed from the response header from the previous step or in the __User__ menu in Keycloak Admin UI.

The response should return status `200 OK` in case of successful permission creation.

## Tenant interactions

After the user is registered on Keycloak and the required permission is created by admin,
the tenant can log in and utilize the agent by using the token issued by Keycloak.

### 1. Obtain access token from Keycloak

The first step is to authenticate via Keycloak through any applicable authentication method.
Usually, the tenant will use some frontend application that follows the standard flow for logging in.

> For simplicity, a username and password flow will be used in this tutorial.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For simplicity, we use a flow for username and password in this tutorial.
```

The administrator has already set up the username and password for the tenant.

> The tenant can call Keycloak token endpoint directly with those credentials to get the access token.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The tenant can call the Keycloak token endpoint directly with those credentials to get the access token.
```

Run the command to log in

```bash
curl -X 'POST' \
  'http://localhost:9980/realms/my-realm/protocol/openid-connect/token' \
  -d "grant_type=password" \
  -d "client_id=admin-cli" \
  -d "username=alice" \
  -d "password=1234"
```

> Special attention on the `client_id`, this should be the actual `client_id` of the frontend application that log the user in.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Special attention on the `client_id`; this should be the actual `client_id` of the frontend application that logs the user in.
```

> For this tutorial, it is absolutely OK to use `admin-cli`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this tutorial, it is OK to use `admin-cli`.
```

Example token response (some fields omitted for readability)

```json
{
    "access_token": "eyJhbGciOi...7ocDHofUDQ",
    "refresh_token": "eyJhbGciOi...otsEEi4eQA",
    ...
}
```

> ### 2. Request RPT (requesting party token) from access token

Reviewer: RPT needs defined and explained

Author: Added reference to to glossary

> After the access token is aquired, the next step is to get the RPT token which holds information about the permissions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the access token is acquired, the next step is to get the RPT token, which holds information about the permissions.
```

> The RPT can be requested by running this command

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is possible to request the RPT by running this command:
```

```bash
curl -X POST \
  'http://localhost:9980/realms/my-realm/protocol/openid-connect/token' \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer eyJhbGciOi...7ocDHofUDQ" \
  -d "grant_type=urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-type:uma-ticket" \
  -d "audience=prism-agent"
```

Example token response (some fields omitted for readability)

```json
{
    "access_token": "eyJhbGciOi...e7H6W8RUvA",
    "refresh_token": "eyJhbGciOi...W1_y1AF_YY",
    ...
}
```

> Inspecting the token of the response, there should be a new claim in the JWT payload called `authorization`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After inspecting the response token, a new claim named `authorization` should appear in the JWT payload.
```

Example RPT payload (some fields omitted for readability)

```json
{
  ...
  "authorization": {
    "permissions": [
      {
        "rsid": "99734c87-5c9d-4697-b5fd-dea4e9590ba7",
        "rsname": "<WALLET_RESOURCE_NAME>"
      },
      ...
    ]
  },
  ...
}
```

### 3. Perform a simple action to verify access to PRISM Agent

To prove that the tenant can access the wallet using RPT,
try listing the DIDs in the wallet using RPT in the `Authorization` header.

```bash
curl --location --request GET 'http://localhost:8080/prism-agent/did-registrar/dids' \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer eyJhbGciOi...e7H6W8RUvA' \
  -H 'Accept: application/json'
```

Make sure to replace the token with RPT from previous step.

The result should show 200 status with an empty list.

> This means that the wallet has been created and it does not contain any DIDs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This means that the wallet has been created and does not contain any DIDs.
```

> Any interactions that the tenant performs should be scoped to only this wallet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All actions carried out by the tenant must be limited to this specific wallet.
```

### A note on RPT

In this tutorial, there is an additional step for the tenant to request the RPT from the access token.

> This aligns with the standard UMA interaction, where the handling of RPT typically occurs on the client side.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This process aligns with the standard UMA interaction, where the handling of RPT typically occurs on the client side.
```

> To simplify the experience, the agent has a feature that allows user to bypass this process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To simplify the experience, the agent has a feature allowing users to bypass this process.
```
